I am actually gonna go through an example,
technical document with you, and
we're gonna kind of do a thought
experiment here on this, and
we'll kinda go through it together.
So as our first technical document,
I'm going to give you guys the problem.
We currently have no way to monitor
stream output logs from services and
other things running in
our Kubernetes cluster.
So basically,
we have no logging, all right?
Just before I jump into this,
what do you think?
And I'm curious to you guys, where do
you think we would start with this?
What would be your next prompt or
your next header that you would
say after we wrote this problem?
What would you feel, we don't have logs,
where would you start?
>> How do we log?
>> Yeah, that's a good one.
How do we do logging currently?
That's a great one.
>> Anyways.
>> Yeah, that's that's a good one,
absolutely.
That's actually a very, very good one.
I mean,
it could be a lot of different things, but
I definitely think starting with
what exists is a great way to start.
So I actually started with requirements.
And I did that mostly because I knew
what existed already, which was nothing.
[LAUGH] And
that's why we don't have it here.
But it's in the circumstances,
if something did exist,
you would definitely wanna
work with that first.
So let's set some requirements for
our technical document.
We only care about stdio,
or stdin, stdout.
We have no use for fields or
advanced indexing or anything like that.
If you've ever worked with logging,
you know that that second
part literally throws out most of
the advanced logging solutions out there.
Because all we care about is
just simple stdin, stdout, or
what is coming from our application raw,
straight out of it.
The second thing, we don't wanna
manage infrastructure [LAUGH], right?
Second requirement,
I don't want to manage this [LAUGH].
You know what I mean?
Just writing that down alone
can help you guide your
decision making quite a bit
with regards to that.
Another one, we only want to solve simple
logging for all of our services in
Kubernetes, to unblock when we
have errors and need to find them.
This one simply tells us what
we actually care about, right?
A lot of monitoring and logging solutions
out there will, say, well, you can
implement tracing, and you can do real
time error handling, and all those things.
Okay, sure, we totally could
do that at some point, but
that's gonna require a lot of code change,
it's gonna require a lot of other things.
And so this is that scoping that I was
talking about before where we say,
we only want simple logging,
we have nothing.
How about we not try and
go to the moon when we don't even
know how to build rockets yet.
And so that's really what this is here.
It's is simply saying, hey,
I know this sounds fun, but first,
let's focus on just to
solving the basic problem.
Last one is also massively important,
because I think if you go to most places,
they want a couple of these things,
which is, we don't care about
metrics right now, right?
Most monitoring stocks and things like
that will say, cool, you want logs,
guess what?
We'll give metrics too.
That little person on your shoulder
telling you that, is enough to distract
you and take you down a whole other
path that you didn't need to go down.
And I've seen this tons of times where
we started solving one problem and
then we were like, yeah,
but it's free [LAUGH].
Cool, [LAUGH] whatever.
It's not free in the sense of
engineering resource time.
having to learn these new things.
It's also not free in the sense of,
now we're gonna have to support it, right?
And we might not be aware of how free
actually it is later on when we're dealing
with a bunch of other problems.
So I'm gonna take a look at
this from my perspective.
And this is where we start applying
a little bit of what you were saying,
what do we already have?
And we're gonna look at this
from two separate angles.
The first angle we're gonna look
at this is from self host, and
we're gonna look at real solutions here.
So you guys hopefully should be able
to recognize some of these terms and
things like that.
First off,
we're gonna look at self hosted, right?
Well, we have Loki with Grafana,
and it's free basically.
We discovered that,
it includes most features, right?
However, the query
language is adoptable and
simple, it's not massively extensive
in what we can do with it.
But if we're talking about we
just wanna get something up and
running, sure, this Grafana and
Loki might not be a bad solution.
So whenever you compare something,
you normally want something to compare it
against, which is something
I also highly recommend.
Don't just look at one solution,
look at multiple solutions.
And so what else do we have out there?
Well, we also have Elastic with Kibana,
right, the good old fashion ELK stack.
Because it's self hosted just like with
Loki, it's free, but limited, right?
Limited because it's licensed, right?
So if we automatically start
comparing Loki to Elastic,
we kind of start seeing, okay, well,
we get most of the stuff with Loki,
we can get a lot more with Elastic, but
it's licensed, we have to pay for it.
And the last thing with ELK is that it
provides a lot of extensibility, right?
It has a lot more functionality and
things like that with regards to search,
and we like those things, right, but it is
unfortunately still behind the license.
So now we start talking
about cloud hosted, right?
We wrote in our requirements that
we don't wanna have to manage this.
So why did we start looking at
it with a self hosted solution?
Can anyone give me a potential reason
why we looked at it from a self-hosting
solution?
First, okay, the reason for
it is because cloud-hosting can
sometimes just be way too expensive.
[LAUGH] And we kind of wanna
rule out the things we know
we're not gonna wanna do first, right, and
potentially even have them as backups,
right?
If we go to a cloud product and we say,
okay, cool, we wanna try this out.
And then we literally just
explode our credit card [LAUGH].
We just made a whole other problem and
we are stuck now.
So it's really important to look at
it from, even if you're saying, okay,
I'm not gonna do that, consider it.
Maybe there's something
there you might be missing.
And you'll notice that with the cloud
hosted it's obviously there's much more
options here, right?
But when we look at it,
what are we mostly paying attention to?
Costs, right?
Grafana cloud, we already said we
like Loki, we said that it's nice,
it's got an easier user interface and
stuff like that.
How does that apply in the cloud solution,
right?
Well, there's a base free of 50 gigs,
and then you pay on top of that.
Okay, cool,
we know that Grafana is something we like,
we know that we like Loki.
This isn't a bad solution still,
whether it'd be on cloud or on prem.
And then we say, okay,
let's look at some other ones.
We look at Papertrail, right,
another very common the one where we say,
okay, well, base is $7 a month for
a gig of data.
Compare that to even Grafana,
you kinda go, okay, cool,
Grafana is still looking pretty good.
[LAUGH] And then we slowly
start taking steps away, right,
where we say, okay, well,
what about Elastic, right?
We said we like the ELK stack,
they have a cloud hosted solution.
What does that look like?
Well, that's base of $95, and
maybe we're still really small.
Maybe we don't necessarily need to start
just dropping money into places that
we don't have to, right?
And so in this case, what we're really
exemplifying here is the difference
between what base looks like versus
jumping into something that,
we may be not aware of could
cost us a lot of money, right?
Same thing with like Solarwinds Loggly,
right?
We've got the Papertrail option which
starts off cheaper, but Loggly being more
of like an enterprise product, it's got
a higher price tag because of that.
AWS OpenSearch, right?
Same thing,
it's much more of an advanced product.
It gives you the ELK stack stuff,
but not top and search now.
Base $80, 50 gigs, and
then you've also gotta pay for cluster and
instances, right?
And then finally, New Relic,
base free, and then 100 gigs.
So how do we pick, right?
How do we pick, right?
We've looked at a bunch
of different options and
how do we know which is the best for
us, right?
Well, you're gonna go back here,
[LAUGH] you're gonna look at
what you previously wrote.
You're gonna say, okay, well, I liked
Loki, I liked what we could do with it.
I liked the process or
the potential that is there.
And I do like Elastic with Kibana,
but it's licensed, it's limited.
We're gonna have to pay money and
we may not want to yet.
We also said if we go
further backwards then,
our requirements that we don't wanna
have to manage infrastructure.
Well, we've kind of seen that cloud
hosted is actually very possible.
So we can get self hosted completely out
of here, we don't have to worry about it.
We know now that we have
a solution that's potentially
a decent price, and
also technically what we like.
Cool, okay.
So basically, after you've kind of looked
at everything, you've sauced it, and
you say, okay, cool.
There's gonna be a point where you're
gonna start feeling like, okay,
I need to write my solution, right?
And this is hands down the scariest
part about writing a technical document
because this is where you put
your money where your mouth is.
[LAUGH] And the best thing I can say
with this is, lean on your gut, right?
Lean on your experience, your knowledge.
And just try and
find the best solution possible,
even if it's not the one you wanted.
Because honestly,
AWS OpenSearch seems pretty cool, right?
So just maybe Elastic cloud, you might
even be excited about the solution you're
not gonna use [LAUGH] and
you have to be prepared for that, right?
As a DevOps engineer,
you have to be prepared for
giving the company the best solution,
not you.
So what do we do?
We write a proposed solution, right?
And we say looking at the list above,
there's only one solution that really
stands out to solving our problem,
the quickest with the best accuracy.
And that's Grafana cloud, right?
Why is that Grafana cloud?
Well, as we just said, we liked the user
interface, we like how it works.
We don't mind the costs and
we know that if we wanna get out of it and
something else into the future,
we can, right?
This is the best of
pretty much all worlds.
We have very easy move out,
easy move in, and
not really that big of a vendor lock-in.
And so actually what's funny about this
is, this is a real technical document.
I actually took this document as something
that I was trying to do because I
didn't have any logging for
an on-prem solution that we had.
And as a new smaller company,
as the term goes, buying on a budget.
[LAUGH] We don't have a lot of money and
we want to be able to do a lot of things.
And so for us,
that's the best scenario here.